Here is a brief explanation  of all the legal mumbo jumbo contained in the
various license agreements that may or may not be part of this package.

(This document was designed to be a quick overview of our license terms.
You must refer to the full text of the license for a complete listing of 
terms and conditions.)

QUAKE SHAREWARE END USER LICENSE (slicnse.txt) or
What You Can and Cannot Do With the Shareware Version of Quake.

CAN DO:
-- Play & Enjoy the single player game 
-- Setup a shareware version based server on a not-for-profit basis

CANNOT DO:
-- Run the game with user developed levels.  
-- You may not commercially exploit the shareware version in any way
        This specifically excludes retail distribution of the shareware 
        version. Do not call or e-mail to ask if you can be a retail 
        distributor of the shareware version -- the answer is no! 
-- Commercially exploit any id copyrighted and/or trademarked property. 
        Example: Game names, logos, graphics, etc.


QUAKE REGISTERED VERSION END USER LICENSE (rlicnse.txt) or
What You Can and Cannot Do With the Registered Version of Quake.

CAN DO:
-- Play & Enjoy the single player game
-- Setup a registered version based server on a not-for-profit basis
-- Develop new levels and/or level creation utilities.  
-- Play the game and/or setup a Registered Version based server using
   a user-developed level.

CANNOT DO:
-- Commercially exploit the Registered  Version of Quake in any way;
   see commercially exploitation license info below.
-- Commercially exploit any id copyrighted and/or trademarked
   property. 
        Example: Game names, logos, game graphics, etc. 
-- Sell user-developed levels and/or tools

COMMERCIAL EXPLOITATION LICENSE (comexp.txt -- accompanies Quake
                                 registered version only)

If you are interested in trying to make money using the registered version
of Quake (this sort of thing is not allowed using the shareware version) you
must sign our easy-to-digest Commercial Exploitation License.

This is a royalty free license that allows you to run Quake for a profit
through a certain monthly gross profit range. If your Quake-related business
becomes successful the agreement brings id into the revenue stream.

Basic terms of the commercial exploitation license:

-- License grants a royalty free commercial exploitation right for the
   registered version of Quake as a whole so long as Quake's monthly gross
   revenue is below $5,000.00

-- License provides for a 12.5% royalty to be paid to id Software in months
   where the licensee's Quake related monthly gross revenue is above $5,000.00

-- Royalty is based off net income.  Net income is defined as Quake-related
   gross income less Quake-related expenses.

-- License expressly prohibits commercial exploitation via the sale (retail
   or otherwise) of the shareware or registered versions of Quake.

-- License expressly prohibits advertising/marketing use of our copyrighted
   and/or trademarked properties.

To get into bed with us on this deal you must print two (2) copies of the
document named comexp.txt. (You should find comexp.txt somewhere on the
registered version CD.)  Sign/fill in the blanks of both copies where
indicated and mail both to:

		id Software
		18601 LBJ #666
		Mesquite, TX  75150
		Attn: ComExp License

We will then countersign the documents and mail one back to you.

Two items worth noting here:

1. It is VERY IMPORTANT that the information you enter in the signature
block be legible. We prefer it if you enter the info into the blanks before
printing your two copies. If we cannot read your information we will not be
able to return the documents to you.

2. The terms of this document are not subject to negotiation. If you cannot
live with the terms spelled out in the agreement do not engage in any
commercial exploitation of Quake and do not sign the document.


 

